well the Center for Disease Control and
Prevention announced this week that one
in 68 children is now diagnosed with
some form of autism a local nonprofit
organization aims to help these children
master social skills by working with a
specific kind of animal
Karen lair has this story equine
assisted psychotherapy can not only
assist autistic children with social
skills but it can also have war vets
overcome PTSD and you'd actually be
surprised how much you can improve
self-awareness and family dynamics by
working up-close with horses equine
partners assisted psychotherapy improves
an array of social skills by working
closely with horses therapist Rachel
Hall says horses are extremely intuitive
and aware of human emotions if I am
angry about something or frustrated or
feeling you know kind of upset about
something horses aren't really going to
want to come really around me because
they're going to sense that and so
they're going to be you know responsive
to that encouraging people to be aware
of their emotions in the moment
exercises like lines of communication
force to participants to lead a horse
through a narrow obstacle course without
touching the animal at all way that
you're gonna see if how your
communication is doing and if you're
successful with that is going to be
dictated by how well you get the horse
through the obstacle course
this forces participants to work as a
team building communication skills if
you're having some issues with when to
pull and when to push and when to back
off and when to step forward that's
going to show because then the horse is
going all over the place now the trail
of trust leaves one partner blindfolded
relying solely on the verbal directions
of the other being blindfolded brings up
a lot of trust issues for people some
many people are not comfortable with
that so you know dealing with your own
anxieties hull also works in large
groups and in exercise where the goal is
to work together to get the horse inside
a rope circle again without touching the
animal how well do you work with other
people you know who has the ideas how
well do you convey your ideas are you
the kind of person that's just going to
go out on your own and try to solve a
problem by yourself and not rely on your
members Paul says this is a great
exercise for families to improve
problem-solving skills communication and
family dynamics if you're interested in
learning more about equine assisted
psychotherapy or signing up for a class
with equine partners you can find some
more information on our website Idaho on
your side comm in studio I'm Karin Lera
Fox 9 on your side